Clever Dick
Date: 2006-05-29 21:04:14
Label: Blog

I'm not really one to write in the traditional blog manner, revealing to the
world the tedium of my everyday life --- what TV I watched, what I had for
dinner, what I think about the war in Iraq and all that stuff.  Today's blog
entry is a bit of an exception then, as I'm going to talk about a play I saw on
Friday.

I'm a huge fan of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Feynman">Richard
Feynman</a>; he was an inspirational figure for me.  When leafing through last
week's New Scientist and seeing a play involving the great man, it ws too much
to resist.  The play, <a href="http://www.hampsteadtheatre.com/prod-productions_details.asp?PID=15">Clever Dick</a>, is on at the <a
href="http://www.hampsteadtheatre.com/index.asp">Hampstead Theatre</a> which is
only a stone's throw from <a href="http://www.pkr.com">PKR</a> where I'm
currently working, so it was easy to get to too.

The play is a comedy and is fictional, only Feynman's character and the setting
in the days of the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manhattan_Project">Manhatten Project</a> are
real.  The rest is completely made up and, without giving too much away, is very
much a 'what if' kind of play.  A single change from the what actually happened
(a left turn instead of a right) and what might have happened as a result.

It's been a very long time since I've been to the theatre, and I was *not*
disappointed one bit.  The Hampstead Theatre is a fantastic venue, a modern,
intimate-feeling theatre right next to Swiss Cottage tube station.  As for the
play --- it was absolutely fantastic.  The essential character of Feynman was
captured fantastically both in Crispin Whittell's writing and Adrian Rawlins's
on-stage portrayal --- the genius, ever-explaining, scientist-to-the-core
straight-talking New Yorker.  It was bewitching to behold a full theatre being
explaned the concepts of nuclear fission and fusion, absolute zero and the
importance of the scientific method.

The play was funny in all the right places and extremely touching; dealing with
all the nastiness of death and the personal tragedies of both the scientists
working on the nuclear bomb and those tragedies personal to Feynman.

I can wholeheartedly recommend it, not just to Feynman buffs but to anyone with
an interest in science --- Ness enjoyed it very much too.

(_Links: <a
href="http://arts.guardian.co.uk/reviews/story/0,,1781703,00.html">Guardian
review</a>_)
